The Project Gutenberg eBook of How to conduct a small mail order
business, Multum in parvo library, Vol. 3, No. 27, March 1896, by W. E.
Skinner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: How to conduct a small mail order business, Multum in parvo
       library, Vol. 3, No. 27, March 1896

Author: W. E. Skinner

Release Date: July 24, 2023 [eBook #71267]

Language: English

Credits: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
         Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy of
         the Digital Library@Villanova University.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOW TO CONDUCT A SMALL MAIL
ORDER BUSINESS, MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY, VOL. 3, NO. 27, MARCH
1896 ***


Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRICE 5 CENTS.




HOW TO CONDUCT A SMALL MAIL ORDER BUSINESS.


  HINTS AND HELPS BY
  W. E. SKINNER.

  MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY.

  Entered at Boston Post Office as second
  class matter. Published by A. B. Courtney,
  Room 74, 45 Milk Street, Boston.

  Vol. 3. MARCH, 1896. Published Monthly. No. 27

  Subscription Price, 50 Cents Per Year.




HINTS ON CONDUCTING --A SMALL-- MAIL ORDER BUSINESS.


There are, in the United States and Canada, hundreds of concerns
who obtain their revenue almost exclusively by means of transacting
business through the mails. In addition to these, many regular city
retailers have of late opened departments for mail order trade.

The habit of purchasing by mail is rapidly assuming enormous
proportions in this country, and the custom has been catered to, in
such a manner, that the ranchman on the plains may wear a latest style
metropolitan custom-made suit, while his daughters may equip herself
_a la_ Fifth Avenue--all by inspection of a catalogue, a postal money
order and a letter.




Good Postal System.


These facilities have been brought about by the general march of
improvement, and, perhaps, more particularly on account of the greatly
improved postal system. Almost every intelligent person has had more
or less experience in buying through the mails, but the object of this
little book is to show how a small business can be profitably conducted
for this purpose.




Start Right.


One of the most essential things to start with is an attractive article
or line of goods. Shall it be in the nature of a staple or a novelty?
The difficulty in handling staple goods in a small way is the lack of
profit.




Staple Goods.


Staple goods are handled by retailers everywhere, and, people will not
readily send away for that which they can procure at home. Of course,
there is always more or less mail trade on specialties in the line of
staples, such as Plymouth Rock Pants, Douglas’ Shoes, etc., but even
then, manufacturers tell me that there is no profit in the mail orders,
they are handled merely for the sake of augmenting regular trade by
making the goods popular.

Perhaps I might make an exception in the staple list of watches,
silverware and jewelry. These are good mail order sellers.




Numerous Novelties.


In the line of novelties, there are hundreds of things such as books,
toys, games, photographs, perfumery, etc.

Small toys, not easily broken, and of light weight when packed, sell in
immense quantities if advertised in November and December. Of course,
the advertisement must be properly arranged, good journals used, and
the price of the toy should be small.




“Frozen Perfumery.”


Millions of perfumed cakes of Plaster-Paris, put in small ornamented
tin boxes, have been sold during the past ten years. These goods cost
about 4 cents each, can be sold at ten cents, give satisfaction if well
made and can be mailed at a cost of a cent each for postage, which will
admit of the “wonder stone” being wrapped in a quantity of advertising
circulars.

One or two ingenious advertisers put up packages of sachet powder and
sell them as “Love Powders.” They are said to enable the recipient to
“gain and maintain the love of another.”




Several Saleable Specialties.


Cheap books usually sell well if they are attractively written up and
advertised in the right kind of papers. Millions of copies of certain
books have been sold at ten cents through the mails. Of the MULTUM IN
PARVO LIBRARY, of which this little treatise is one, several millions
have been sold at ten cents per set of twelve titles.

People readily buy Japanese napkins, sometimes advertised as
handkerchiefs, (which they really are), but the great sale may be due
somewhat to the fact that our country cousins do not really know what
a Japanese _crepe_ handkerchief is and fondly imagine that they are to
get a fifteen inch pure silk affair. These goods can be procured of
Japanese importers in New York, Chicago, San Francisco and other cities.

Cheap jewelry, such as rings, chains and the like, generally sell well.
The prices should be low and the description must be strong, to attract
trade, however.




Watches by Mail.


The watch mail order business is very large. As a rule, Swiss watches
are the sort dealt in. The values of American watches are quite well
known, and they are on sale everywhere; but the Swiss watches can be
described in cash attracting adjectives and when sold the margin of
profit is fairly good.




Indecent Advertising.


Avoid the temptation to sell obscene goods, or to sell any sort of
stuff by so-called suggestive announcements. This kind of business
is profitable while it lasts, but it usually ends in bringing the
advertiser into disrepute and imprisonment.




Don’t Lie.


In writing a description of your goods, do not misrepresent them. A
dash of adjectives now and then is customary and acceptable, for mild
exaggeration is expected. Nevertheless you must not say that a ring has
a diamond setting if it is only glass.




Send Circulars.


Have a catalogue or set of circulars advertising various specialties,
and send this printed matter out with every package. If your first
filling of an order gives satisfaction, you are quite sure to get a
second order, and possibly several subsequent orders.




Letters are Valuable.


The letters that you receive from country customers are more or less
valuable. Other dealers will purchase them of you for purpose of using
the addresses in sending out their own catalogues.




Good Sellers.


Cheap books with attractive titles are usually fast selling property,
and if contents are as advertised, always give satisfaction. The
Keystone Book and News Co., 1111 Arch St., Philadelphia, are among the
leading wholesalers. They send trade circulars only to persons who
prove themselves to be regularly engaged in the mail order business.




Medical Business.


It is surprising to note what a vast amount of medicine is sent through
the mails. There are remedies for all diseases to which the flesh is
heir. If you have a good tonic, blood purifier, skin beautifier or
other preparation which you wish to push the sale of, the better way
to get “points” is to answer the advertisements of other concerns
advertising similar specialties and learn their methods. But do not
copy other concerns’ literature; simply pick out a few good ideas and
combine them with your own originality.




Advertising Agencies.


A large proportion of advertising is placed through so-called agents.
They are a legion. About a dozen make a specialty of mail order
advertising. You can get further information by reading a copy of _Our
Silent Partner_, which you can obtain free by writing to Fred Terry,
Waterville, Maine. There are a large number of publications that pay
for mail order advertising, and a much larger number which do not pay
the advertiser.




Not Tolerated.


The U. S. and Canadian postal officials do not encourage so-called
“work at home” schemes which usually take money out of poor people’s
pockets. Many alleged offenders have been prosecuted for doing this
sort of business.




Watch Your Mailing.


If you are doing a large mailing don’t neglect to make it a part of
your duties to step in and watch the operations of your mailing clerks
frequently. An employe sometimes forgets postal rates and wastes a
great deal of money. We know an advertiser whose clerk sent out six
thousand packages with four cents postage on each when the packages,
consisting of printing matter, could have traveled at two cents. Most
of the successful mail order advertisers keep their eyes on such
details and they save money thereby.




Not Good Criterion.


The so-called “cost and result” schedules are usually only valuable to
the advertiser who prepares them as a result of his own experience. To
all others who consider them, they are a delusion and a snare. Suppose
an advertisement of an inch is placed in a list of publications by a
watch dealer, a picture dealer, a medical advertiser, a novelty man and
an agents’ supply house. There will be quite a striking difference in
the ratio of results in each instance. A paper that pays one may not
pay the other. We have seen this demonstrated so many times that we
know whereof we speak.




Advertising Axioms.


“Virtue increases under a weight or burden” and results increase with a
comprehensive expenditure of money in good advertising mediums.

“Better late than never.” The golden opportunity is still open to him
who would enrich himself by judicious advertising. None other way will
pay.

“Mind moves matter.” Therefore exercise your mind to advertise so as
to stir the gray matter of the brains of the people and affect their
pocket-books.

Good goods will sell to good people constantly. Poor goods only once.
Don’t let people say, “after having praised their wine they sell us
vinegar.”

“There is no lock but a golden key will open it,” except that of the
people’s pocket-book. First class ads will do this with golden results.
When people think they want a thing, they do want it and they get it.

To be prominent anywhere one must have marked characteristics. So it
is with an advertisement in the crowded columns of newspapers and
magazines; in order to produce the best results it must be clear,
definite, conspicuous and fresh. _Is yours of this character?_




Free.


There’s the catch word of all humanity. Fifty years ago it was the most
potent word in the language, and all the advertising experts who have
developed since have not succeeded in devising one to succeed it.

Look over the papers which are read by the simple country folk, and
note how that word stands out all over them. The article advertised
goes in agate type below it. The particulars about what stamps or coins
must be sent to secure the “free” article, go in minion. The ad. may
occupy but an inch, and half of the inch may consist of the one word
“Free,” but the advertising evidently pays if continuance signifies
profit.

One sometimes wonders where the crop of gold brick victims constantly
comes from, where the green goods men continually find patrons,
and why confidence men grow more numerous as their wiles become
better advertised. There is a greater crop of “Free” victims growing
somewhere. It is hard to believe that anyone answers a “Free”
ad. twice, but this class of advertising grows and prospers. This is a
large country, and the boys who are growing up must all learn by
experience what their fathers learned likewise. No youth seems content
to be taught in any other way. It looks as if there was no danger of
any lack of advertising to teach them.--_Exchange._




The Old Story.


A man generally knows his own business well enough to make money out of
it. When he attempts another business he finds that some other fellow
has learned that business better than he has, evidently. Few men ever
learn enough about more than one business to make both or all of them
pay.




Profitable Catalogues.


Mr. John Lynn, of 48 Bond St., New York is a successful dealer in
novelties; his catalogue is very attractive.

Another successful dealer is Chas. E. Marshall, Lockport, N. Y. His
catalogue is a winner.

Montgomery Ward & Co., Chicago, do the largest mail order business in
the world. Their catalogue is quite a large volume in itself.




Gets One on Depew.


This is one of the stories about Chauncey M. Depew and a railroad pass
that is being told nowadays in local railroad circles.

The president of the Waupaca and Nishna Railroad company went to see
the mild-mannered president of the Vanderbilt system.

“What can I do for you?” Mr. Depew asked, letting the smile he uses on
such occasions have full swing at the visitor.

“I dropped in to see you, Mr. Depew, to ask for an exchange of
courtesies. I am the president of the Waupaca and Nishna Railroad
company. I would like to have a pass over your road and will extend the
same courtesy to yourself over my road.”

Depew looked thoughtful for a minute. Then he said:

“Where is your road?”

“Why, it’s out in Wisconsin.”

“Is it rated in Poor’s manual?”

“Oh, yes, indeed; we paid a nice dividend last year.”

“Strange. I never heard of your road. How long is it?”

“We are operating sixty-seven miles this year.”

“What, sixty-seven miles, and you call that an exchange of courtesy,
and the Vanderbilt system has its thousands of miles?”

Depew assumed his most cavalier air as he launched that question at the
head of the president of the Waupaca and Nishna and then he waited for
a reply.

“Well, Mr. Depew,” said the western railroad president as he arose
to go, “your road may be a little longer than mine, but it ain’t any
wider.”




His Joke Worked Badly.


A young man who seemed to be boiling over to do something smart was a
passenger on a Michigan avenue car the other day. After racking his
massive brain for a while he took out a silver dollar and laid it on
the seat and took a seat opposite. The car soon stopped at a crossing
to let on an old woman with a basket. She saw the empty seat and the
dollar, and it didn’t take her over thirty seconds to drop herself into
the place and the dollar into her pocket.

“Excuse me, ma’am,” said the joker, “but I’ve lost a dollar. I think I
left it on that seat.”

“I don’t,” she bluntly replied.

“But I’m sure of it. Did you pick up a dollar?”

“None of your business, sir.”

“But all of us saw you pick it up, ma’am, and I can prove it was mine.”

“Look a’ here, young chap,” she said, as she put down her basket, “if
it’s a row you want you’ll find me ready. I allow no one to walk on me.”

“But, ma’am, I left----”

“Come on, then,” she said, as she stood up and doubled up her fists. “I
am a peaceful woman, and I want to get along the easiest way, but if I
must I will.”

Everybody began to clap and laugh, and the smart Aleck took a drop off
the platform without asking what it was all about.




Mike’s Dilemma.


Mike is an Irishman just fresh from the Emerald isle, who recently came
to Hackensack, N. J., and was employed by two gentlemen, each keeping
a horse in the same stable, to look after their equines. One day
Mr. Jones told Mike to hitch up his horse and bring it around to his
residence.

Mike did as he was bidden, but when Mr. Jones saw the turnout he said:
“Why, Mike, that is not my horse, that is Mr. Smith’s animal.”

“Begorra,” promptly replied Mike, “so it is. I knowed that wasn’t your
horse, sir, but I couldn’t quite make up my mind which horse belonged
to the other gintleman.”




A Rank Failure.


“I don’t believe whippings do children any good,” said Mrs. Wiggins.
“Why, I whipped Johnny at the photographer’s three times because he
wouldn’t look pleasant and he still looked as cross and disagreeable as
ever.”




At Reduced Speed.


Uncle Hays--’Member the Hawkins boys who ran away to jine a theatre
company?

Aunt Marthy--Why, yes! What about ’em?

Uncle Hays (quietly)--They’ve walked back.




Two Feminine Views of Adam.


First Nineteenth Century Girl--I never did have any opinion of Adam.
A man who could excuse himself by saying, “The woman tempted me,” had
none of the instincts of a gentleman.

Second Ditto--But what could you expect of the first man? You know it
takes three generations to make a gentleman.




Posted on the Ring.


“Strange,” remarked Mrs. Brown, “I have rung at Mrs. Smith’s door three
times this week, and I didn’t succeed in arousing anyone. I suppose the
family is out of town!”

“Possibly,” replied Mrs. Jones; “but Mrs. Smith was telling me just now
that she could tell your ring among a thousand.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Punctuation has been made consistent.

The following changes were made:

p. 4: illegible word assumed to be are (they are attractively)

p. 8: illegible word assumed to be on (eyes on such)

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOW TO CONDUCT A SMALL MAIL
ORDER BUSINESS, MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY, VOL. 3, NO. 27, MARCH
1896 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact.

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
